Define `config.sanitizeHtml` in a common space (#16878)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: docs/getting-started/setup/html-security.md

order: 110
---

# HTML security

While creating and editing the HTML content, it is important to prevent the execution of any malicious code. This guide describes how to secure the editor from this happening.

## Data loading

The data provided at the editor initialization is by default stripped out of any potentially harmful content. You don't have to provide any additional security measures here.

## Features previewing the HTML snippets

If you configure the HTML embed feature to {@link features/html-embed#content-previews show content previews} or the merge fields feature to render the {@link features/merge-fields#using-html-tags-in-merge-fields-values values defined as HTML strings}, the HTML is then rendered to the user. If the HTML was rendered as-is, **the browser would execute any JavaScript code included in these HTML snippets in the context of your website**.

This, in turn, is a plain security risk (especially in HTML embed feature, where user can input any content). The HTML provided by the user might be mistakenly copied from a malicious website. It could also end up in the user's clipboard (as it would usually be copied and pasted) by any other means.

> You can instruct some advanced users to never use the HTML code from untrusted sources. However, in most cases, it is highly recommended to secure the system by configuring the HTML embed feature to use an HTML sanitizer and, optionally, by setting strict {@link getting-started/setup/csp Content Security Policy (CSP) rules}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can instruct some advanced users to never use the HTML code from untrusted sources. However, in most cases, it is highly recommended to secure the editor by setting an HTML sanitizer and, optionally, by setting strict {@link getting-started/setup/csp Content Security Policy (CSP) rules}.
```
